# Project-504
5.1 MW Small Scale Wind Power Project by Nutan Eco Power in Gujarat, India

Scale of the project activity Small Scale

Project participants : M/S Nutan Eco Power (Project owner)

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and
standardized baselines
Applied Baseline Methodology:
AMS-I.D.: “Grid connected renewable electricity
generation”, version 18

Standardized Methodology: Not Applicable.
Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries
(Renewable/Non-Renewable Sources)
_________________
The project activity is a renewable power generation activity which incorporates installation and operation of 3
Wind Turbine Generators (WTGs) i.e. 1.5 MW X 2 and 2.1 MW x 1 having total capacity 5.1 MW each
manufactured and supplied by Suzlon Global Service Limited in the state of Gujarat in India. This project has
been promoted by M/S Nutan Eco Power.

The WTGs under the project activity were commissioned in Gujarat as per the ex-ante estimate, the project will
generate approximately 11,169 MWh of electricity per annum. The net generated electricity from the project
activity is sold to state electricity board i.e., GUVNL under the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed
between the PP and the utility. In pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity
would have otherwise been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by
the addition of new fossil fuel-based generation sources. Through utilization of renewable power at the
manufacturing unit, the project activity would be displacing equivalent quantum of grid electricity resulting
in an emission reduction of 10052 tCO2e per annum. The project activity has been helping in greenhouse gas
(GHG) emission reduction by using renewable resources (wind energy) for generating power which otherwise
would have been generated using grid mix power plants, which is dominated by fossil fuel based thermal power
plants.

Since the project activity generates electricity through wind energy, a clean renewable energy source it will not
cause any negative impact on the environment and thereby contributes to climate change mitigation efforts
The Government of India has stipulated following indicators for sustainable development in the interim approval
guidelines for such projects which are contributing to GHG mitigations. The Ministry of Environment, Forests
& Climate Change, has stipulated economic, social, environment and technological well-being as the four
indicators of sustainable development. It has been envisaged that the project shall contribute to sustainable
development using the following ways:

Social well-being: The project would help in generating direct and indirect employment benefits accruing out
of ancillary units for manufacturing towers for erection of the Wind Turbine Generator (WTG) and for
maintenance during operation of the project activity. It will lead to development of infrastructure around the
project area in terms of improved road network etc. and will also directly contribute to the development of
renewable infrastructure in the region.
Economic well-being: The project is a clean technology investment decided based on carbon revenue support,

_________
Sr. No. /Name Of PP /District/ WTG Number/ Commissioning Date
_____________
1 / M/S Nutan Eco. Power / Kutch /SEL/1500/07-08/0702 / 30/09/2007
_________
2 / M/S Nutan Eco. Power / Kutch/ SEL/1500/07-08/0703 / 30/09/2007
_________
3 / M/S Nutan Eco Power  / Porbandar/ SEL/2100/15-16/3603 / 21/08/2015
__________

WTG Number/ Pinpoint Location
__________
 SEL/1500/07-08/0702  - 23°06'13.2"N 68°47'41.7"E
______
 SEL/1500/07-08/0703 -  23°06'00.7"N 68°47'47.1"E
_______
SEL/2100/15-16/3603 -  21°43'31.6"N 69°29'20.7"E
_______________
